Psycopg2 was imported, which is used to connect python to postgresql. Faker is used to generate random first and last names. Random was also imported and string to create the alphanum and pick random numbers out of it. From the faker package Faker is being used, and will initate faker to use its functions.

The variable data is a list that starts empty to be later filled by the genData function. Inside of the function genData, the variable alphanum combines ascii letters and digits to create alphanum. Then the variable randdatasize picks a random number from 1,10 (just for testing), to create 1-10 amount of number of managers. For each iteration of the loop, the first and last name is created using faker functions, as well as dateStarted. The variable ptoused is randomly picked based off of a set range. The variable randID is made to hold an empty string that will join the next six randomly picked alphanum. Then it will be appended to the data list as a tuple holding first name as fname, last name as lname, researcherID as randID, dateStarted, and PTO used as ptoused. The function will return the data list.

Using the package psycopg2, connec is named as a varible that helps connect python and postgresql. The connect is where one enters the database information such as user, database name, password, host and port of the table one wants to access.

After that a variable called sqlComm was created to hold a sql command that is used to insert rows into the labmanager table from the schema labemployees. The %s are where the three sections of data can be entered from the data variable. The variable labmanagerdata just holds the function genData. A variable named pointer is used to create a pointer object, then used to use the fuction executemany, which takes in the sql command (sqlComm) and the data (generated by the genData) function. After that I used connec.commit to save the insertions of rows into the databbase. I use the last two print lines to help user/ coder confirm the information was inserted into the database.

Lastly the pointer and the connection (connec) are closed.